Add Error Events, postMessage broadcasts & Cache Probing (+ Vary:Sec-Fetch-Site) XS-Leaks (#15)
xsleaks/wiki: content/docs/defenses/opt-in/fetch-metadata.md

menu = "main"
+++

Fetch Metadata Headers are sent by browsers in every request or navigation made by a page. These Headers provide context on how every request/navigation was initiated, so that applications are able to make more informed decisions on how to respond to them. This allows servers to behave differently when they detect potential attacks (i.e. unexpected cross-origin requests)[^1].

## Fetch Metadata & Cache Probing Attacks

> Fetch Metadata can be combined with the [Vary](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Vary) Response Header to **segregate** served cached resources by groups of origins. The [Vary](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Vary) Header when set with [`Sec-Fetch-Site`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Sec-Fetch-Site) will store and serve different cached entries based on the origin who originally preformed the request. With this header, an attacker which tries to [probe a cached resource](https://TODO) of a different origin won't be able to interfere with cached entries created from same-origin/same-site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetch Metadata can be combined with the [Vary](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Vary) Response Header to **segregate** caches between same-origin/same-site and cross-origin requests. The [Vary](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Vary) Header when set with [`Sec-Fetch-Site`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Sec-Fetch-Site) will store and serve different cached entries based on the origin who originally preformed the request. With this header, an attacker which tries to [probe a cached resource](https://TODO) of a different origin won't be able to interfere with cached entries created from same-origin/same-site.
```

"will store and serve different cached entries based on the origin who originally preformed the request" I don't think this is how it works. I think that if you request a resource with a different value of a "Vary-ed" header than the one in the cache will be ignored and the cache emptied. I don't think the browser will store one thing in cache per value of Sec-Fetch-Site. You might want to ask Jerry about this, he probably know how it works.

(I wonder if this introduces a way to flush caches to perform other attacks)

Author: I will clear this one out

Author: I spoke with Jerry. He believes we are describing the correct behaviour of Vary: Sec-Fetch-Site. He also said something interesting: "varying on SFS is kinda like poor man's double keyd cache" which is a bit the idea I have for this awesome mechanism. I don't think it can be used to invalidate any cache entry (from what I read in the [http spec](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7234#section-4.1)), but if did, that would be absolutely ultra terrible?

He also pointed out the article might suggest the reader this Vary thingy is the most important feature of Fetch-Metadata, while it's not. I rephrased the whole article to clear this out, so please check if it's are okay. Tuned the article in cbc9f89
